
[R] estimates store -- Store and restore estimation results
                       (View complete PDF manual entry)


Syntax

        estimates store name [, nocopy]

        estimates restore name


        estimates query

        estimates dir [namelist]


        estimates drop namelist

        estimates clear


    where namelist is a name, a list of names, _all, or *.
        _all and * mean the same thing.

    collect is allowed with estimates dir; see prefix.


Menu

    Statistics > Postestimation


Description

    estimates store name saves the current (active) estimation results under the name name.

    estimates restore name loads the results stored under name into the current (active) estimation results.

    estimates query tells you whether the current (active) estimates have been stored and, if so, the name.

    estimates dir displays a list of the stored estimates.

    estimates drop namelist drops the specified stored estimation results.

    estimates clear drops all stored estimation results.

    estimates clear, estimates drop _all, and estimates drop * do the same thing.  estimates drop and estimates clear do not
    eliminate the current (active) estimation results.


Links to PDF documentation

        Quick start

        Remarks and examples

    The above sections are not included in this help file.


Option

    nocopy, used with estimates store, specifies that the current (active) estimation results are to be moved into name rather
        than copied.  Typing

                . estimates store hold, nocopy

        is the same as typing

                . estimates store hold
                . ereturn clear

        except that the former is faster.  The nocopy option is sometimes used by programmers.


Example

    Setup
        . sysuse auto
        . regress mpg weight displ

    Store results
        . estimates store myreg

        . ... you do other things, including fitting other models ...

    Restore regression results
        . estimates restore myreg

    For comparison, the same output is shown again
        . regress

    List stored estimates
        . estimates dir

    Drop estimates stored as myreg
        . estimates drop myreg

    After estimates restore myreg, things are once again just as they were, estimationwise, just after you typed regress mpg
    weight displ.

    estimates store stores results in memory.  When you exit Stata, those stored results vanish.  If you wish to make a permanent
    copy of your estimation results, see [R] estimates save.

    The purpose of making copies in memory is (1) so that you can quickly switch between them and (2) so that you make tables
    comparing estimation results.  Concerning the latter, see [R] estimates table, [R] etable, and [R] estimates stats.


Stored results

    estimates dir stores the following in r():

                Macros
                    r(names)   names of stored results
