
help regsave
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Title

    regsave -- Extract and store regression results.

Syntax

        regsave [coeflist] [using filename] [, tstat pval ci level(#) nose cmdline autoid covar(coeflist) detail(type)
              coefmat(matname) varmat(matname) rtable df(#) double addlabel(newvarname1, label1, newvarname2, label2, ...)
              addvar(name1, coef1, stderr1, name2, coef2, stderr2, ...) table(table_suboptions) saveold(version #) append
              replace]

    where

        table_suboptions are

            table(name [, order(string) format(%fmt) sigfig(#) parentheses(statlist) brackets(statlist) asterisk(numlist)])

        coeflist corresponds to names of regressors for estimation results currently stored in e(),

        type can be either all, scalars, or macros, and

        statlist is one or more of the following:  coef, stderr, tstat, pval, ci_lower, ci_upper


Description

    regsave fetches estimation results from e() and stores them in "wide" format (default) or "table" format:

        1. By default, results are stored in wide format. Use this format when you want to further analyze your regression
              results using Stata.

        2. If you specify the table() option, results are stored in table format.  You can then outsheet those results to a text
              file, or use texsave (if installed) to output your table in LaTeX format (see example 6 below). Use the table()
              option when you want to create a publication-quality table.

    The helper command regsave_tbl converts the dataset in memory from wide format to table format.

Options

    tstat calculates t-statistics by dividing coef by stderr.


    pval calculates two-tailed p-values using the t-statistic and the residual degrees of freedom (as retrieved from e(df_r) or
        as specified in df()).  If the residual degrees of freedom are unavailable, the p-value is calculated by assuming
        normality.


    ci calculates confidence intervals according to the confidence level set by level (default controlled by set level) and the
        residual degrees of freedom (as retrieved from e(df_r) or as specified in df()).  If the residual degrees of freedom are
        unavailable, the confidence interval is calculated by assuming normality.


    level(#) specifies the confidence level, as a percentage, for confidence intervals.  The default is level(95) or as set by 
        set level.


    nose drops standard errors from the reported results.


    cmdline stores the Stata command code that produced the estimation results, if it's available from e(cmdline).


    autoid provides an id number for your saved results. This is useful when saving a large number of results to the same
        dataset. autoid can be used as a complement to and/or substitute for addlabel().


    covar(coeflist) instructs Stata to store all possible combinations of covariances for the variables specified in coeflist.


    detail(type) stores additional statistics.  If type is all, regsave retrieves all results available in e().  The user may
        alternatively specify a subset of those results: either scalars or macros.


    coefmat(matname) instructs Stata to retrieve coefficient estimates from matname instead of e(b), the default.  See the notes
        section below for more information.


    varmat(matname) instructs Stata to retrieve variance estimates from matname instead of e(V), the default.  See the notes
        section below for more information.


    rtable instructs regsave to fetch estimation results from r(table) rather than e(). This is helpful when an estimation
        command reports results that differ from what is stored in e().  See the notes section below (and also example 7) for
        more information.


    df(#) instructs Stata to calculate p-values and confidence intervals using # as the degrees of freedom instead of what is
        stored in e(df_r).  # can be specified as missing ('.') or as any real number greater than 0.  If # is set to missing,
        regsave assumes normality.


    double specifies that all numeric statistics be stored as doubles instead of floats.


    addlabel(newvarname1, label1, newvarname2, label2, ...) instructs Stata to create additional variables containing label data.
        The user-specified label1 is stored in newvarname1, label2 is stored in newvarname2, etc.  This is a good way to label
        your results when storing lots of regression results together in one dataset.  It is also a good way to store additional
        statistics that are not automatically retrieved by regsave (see example 4 below).


    addvar(name1, coef1, stderr1, name2, coef2, stderr2, ...) allows the user to store estimates for variables that are not
        currently stored in e(b) and e(V) (see example 5 below).


    table(name, suboptions) stores estimates in a table format, with standard errors (and t-statistic and p-values, if specified)
        listed below coefficient estimates in a single column.  name specifies the name of the column.

        suboptions:

        order(string) allows the user to specify the table's row order.  The name regvars can be used to refer to all regression
              variables retrieved by regsave (see example 6 below).

        format(%fmt) allows you to specify the formats of the numbers in your table.  For example, a format of %7.2f specifies
              that numbers are to be rounded to two decimal places.  See [D] format for details.

        sigfig(#) allows you to specify the number of significant figures for the numbers in your table.  This is equivalent to
              specifying format(%12.#gc) for some integer # and then filling in leading and trailing zeros.

        parentheses(statlist) puts parentheses around statlist.

        brackets(statlist) puts brackets around statlist.

        asterisk(numlist) allows you to specify up to three (descending) significance levels for asterisks.  For example,
              asterisk(5 1) place a */** next to coefficients that are significant at the 5/1% level, respectively.  Specifying
              asterisk() sets a default, which places a */**/*** next to coefficients that are significant at the 10/5/1% level.


    saveold(version #) uses Stata's saveold command to save data in memory to file in an older Stata format.


    append appends the regression results to the Stata dataset filename.


    replace overwrites filename.


Notes

    By default, Stata retrieves coefficient and variance estimates from e(b) and e(V), respectively.  One exception is if the
    user executes regsave after running a dprobit estimation.  In that case, regsave retrieves the estimates from e(dfdx) and
    e(se_dfdx).  Use options coefmat(matname) and varmat(matname) if you want to retrieve estimates from matrices that differ
    from these defaults.  Note that regsave will take the square root of varmat(matname) unless the string "se" is detected in
    matname (in which case it assumes that standard errors, not variances, are reported).

    Alternatively, specify the rtable option to make regsave fetch results from r(table). This is useful for commands which
    report output that differs from what is stored in e() (e.g., example 7).


List of retrieved items

    regsave automatically retrieves the following items from e() when they are available:


       Matrices
         e(b)               Coefficient estimates (can be overridden with option coefmat(matname))
         e(V)               Variance-covariance matrix (can be overridden with option varmat(matname))

       Scalars
         e(N)               Number of observations
         e(r2)              R-squared


    If detail(all) is specified, regsave retrieves all available statistics from e().


Saved results

    regsave saves the following scalars to r():

         r(N)               Number of rows in the newly created dataset
         r(k)               Number of columns in the newly created dataset


Examples

    1. Replace contents of the active dataset with regression results:

       . sysuse auto.dta, clear

       . regress price mpg trunk headroom length

       . regsave

       . list


    2. Save regression results to a file:

       . sysuse auto.dta, clear

       . regress price mpg trunk headroom length

       . regsave using results, replace


    3. Store regression results in table format:

       . sysuse auto.dta, clear

       . regress price mpg trunk headroom length

       . regsave, tstat pval table(regression_1, parentheses(stderr) brackets(tstat pval))

       . list


    4. Save multiple regression results to a file and label them:

       . sysuse auto.dta, clear

       . regress price mpg trunk headroom length if gear_ratio > 3

       . regsave using results, addlabel(subsample, gear ratio > 3, dataset, auto) replace

       . regress price mpg trunk headroom length if gear_ratio <= 3

       . regsave using results, addlabel(subsample, gear ratio <=3, dataset, auto) append

       . use results, clear

       . list


    5. Include coefficient and standard error estimates for an additional variable:

       . sysuse auto.dta, clear

       . regress price mpg trunk headroom length

       . local mycoef = _b[mpg]*5

       . local mystderr = _se[mpg]*5

       . regsave, addvar(mpg_5, `mycoef', `mystderr')

       . list


    6. Save multiple regression results and output as a LaTeX table (requires installing texsave):

       . sysuse auto.dta, clear

       . regress price mpg trunk

       . regsave using results, table(reg1, format(%5.2f) parentheses(stderr) asterisk(10 5) order(regvars r2 N)) replace

       . regress price mpg trunk headroom

       . regsave using results, table(reg2, format(%5.2f) parentheses(stderr) asterisk(10 5) order(regvars r2 N)) append

       . regress price mpg trunk headroom length

       . regsave using results, table(reg3, format(%5.2f) parentheses(stderr) asterisk(10 5) order(regvars r2 N)) append

       . use results, clear

       . drop if strpos(var,"_cons")!=0

       . replace var = subinstr(var,"_coef","",.)

       . replace var = "" if strpos(var,"_stderr")!=0

       . replace var = "R-squared" if var == "r2"

       . texsave using "table.tex", title("My estimates") footnote("A */** next to the coefficient indicates significance at the 10
> /5% level.") nonames autonumber hlines(-2) replace


    7. Save incidence-rate ratios, which are not stored in e(b):

       . webuse airline, clear

       . poisson injuries XYZowned, exposure(n) irr

       . regsave, t pval ci rtable

       . list


Author

    Julian Reif, University of Illinois

    jreif@illinois.edu


Also see

    regsave_tbl, estimates store, outreg2 (if installed), sortobs (if installed), texsave (if installed), svret (if installed)

