Example 7 — Table of regression results using survey data
Description

Remarks and examples

Reference

Also see

Description
In this example, we demonstrate how to use collect to create a table of regression results when
working with complex survey data.

Remarks and examples
Remarks are presented under the following headings:
Introduction
Table of regression results with complex survey data

Introduction
Throughout this manual, we have used data from the Second National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES II) (McDowell et al. 1981), ignoring the fact that it was derived from a complex
survey design. Below, we report the current survey settings:
. use https://www.stata-press.com/data/r19/nhanes2l
(Second National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey)
. svyset
Sampling weights: finalwgt
VCE: linearized
Single unit: missing
Strata 1: strata
Sampling unit 1: psu
FPC 1: <zero>

Because the survey design has already been declared for these data, we can perform our analyses
accounting for the complex survey design by prefixing our estimation commands with the svy prefix.
We will use this prefix when fitting a regression model below.

Table of regression results with complex survey data
We would like to fit the model we fit in [TABLES] Example 5 but using the svy prefix to account
for the complex survey design of our data. Also, we would like to include information about the survey
design in our table, specifically the number of strata and primary sampling units. Below, we create a new
collection named ex7. Then, we fit the model and use the collect prefix to collect all the results from
e(). We also use the quietly prefix to suppress the output:
. collect create ex7
(current collection is ex7)
. quietly: collect: svy: regress bpsystol bmi i.agegrp i.sex i.race

349

Example 7 — Table of regression results using survey data 350

Then, we arrange the items in our collection with collect layout. We specify that the coefficients
( r b) for each covariate (colname) be placed on the rows, along with the number of strata (N strata)
and the primary sampling units (N psu). All collected results are stored in the dimension result, and
we use brackets ([ ]) to refer to the levels of a dimension. On the columns, we place the results for
each command (cmdset). In this case, we collected results from a single command, but including this
dimension will allow us to add a label at the top.
. collect layout (colname#result[_r_b] result[N_strata N_psu]) (cmdset)
Collection: ex7
Rows: colname#result[_r_b] result[N_strata N_psu]
Columns: cmdset
Table 1: 28 x 1
1
Body mass index (BMI)
Coefficient
20--29
Coefficient
30--39
Coefficient
40--49
Coefficient
50--59
Coefficient
60--69
Coefficient
70+
Coefficient
Male
Coefficient
Female
Coefficient
White
Coefficient
Black
Coefficient
Other
Coefficient
Intercept
Coefficient
Number of strata
Number of sampled PSU

1.314165
0
.9554468
6.40242
14.87049
21.61949
27.90405
0
-5.616304
0
1.397293
-.3119783
88.59293
31
62

We can polish our table with a few modifications. First, we add a label to the level of cmdset, which
will indicate the outcome variable. Then, because we are reporting only coefficients for each variable,
we can hide the label Coefficient. This label is attached to the coefficients ( r b), which are a level
of the dimension result. Below, we hide the label for this level of the dimension with collect style
header.
. collect label levels cmdset 1 ”Model for systolic BP”
. collect style header result[_r_b], level(hide)

If you are wondering why we do not just hide the labels for all levels of result, recall that our survey
design statistics are also part of this dimension.

Example 7 — Table of regression results using survey data 351

Next, we omit the base levels for the factor variables with collect style showbase. We would like
to include the labels for the factor variables and the labels for their levels in a single column. So we stack
the row headers with collect style row, adding a blank line between the stacked row dimensions. By
default, when we stack the row headers, the factor variables will be bound to their levels by an equal
sign. We specify the nobinder option so that the levels will be stacked under the factor-variable labels,
instead of bound by an equal sign.
. collect style showbase off
. collect style row stack, nobinder spacer

Finally, we format the regression results to display only two digits to the right of the decimal. We do
not need to apply this format to the survey design information, so we specify colname#result, which
includes only the regression results. Additionally, we remove the border that is displayed on the right by
default by setting the border pattern to nil. Then, we preview our finalized table:
. collect style cell colname#result, nformat(%5.2f)
. collect style cell border_block, border(right, pattern(nil))
. collect preview
Model for systolic BP
Body mass index (BMI)

1.31

Age group
30--39
40--49
50--59
60--69
70+

0.96
6.40
14.87
21.62
27.90

Sex
Female

-5.62

Race
Black
Other

1.40
-0.31

Intercept

88.59

Number of strata

31

Number of sampled PSU

62

Reference
McDowell, A., A. Engel, J. T. Massey, and K. Maurer. 1981. “Plan and operation of the Second National Health and
Nutrition Examination Survey, 1976–1980”. In Vital and Health Statistics, ser. 1, no. 15. Hyattsville, MD: National
Center for Health Statistics.

Also see
[TABLES] collect style header — Collection styles for hiding and showing header components
[TABLES] collect style row — Collection styles for row headers

Example 8 — Tables for ANOVA
Description

Remarks and examples

Reference

Also see

Description
In this example, we demonstrate how to use collect to store the results of anova and how to use a
predefined style to produce an ANOVA table with these results.

Remarks and examples
Below, we use data from the Second National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES
II) (McDowell et al. 1981). We wish to test whether the mean systolic blood pressure (bpsystol) is
the same across males and females and across each category of race. To perform these tests, we use the
anova command. We first create a new collection named ex8 and then use the collect prefix to collect
the results from anova and store them in the new collection.
. use https://www.stata-press.com/data/r19/nhanes2l
(Second National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey)
. collect create ex8
(current collection is ex8)
. quietly: collect : anova bpsystol sex race

All results that anova returns in e() and r() will be collected. These results include the usual linear
regression estimation results, sums of squares of the model terms, their degrees of freedom, 𝐹 statistics,
and 𝑝-values.
Stata ships with a predefined style named anova suitable for producing ANOVA tables after anova and
oneway. Here we replace the default style with the anova style and call collect preview to report our
ANOVA table.
. collect style use anova, replace
Collection: ex8
Rows: term
Columns: result[SS df MS F p]
Tables: cmdset
Table 1: 5 x 5
. collect preview
SS

df

MS

F statistic

Prob>F

Model
sex
race
Residual

48978.71
38166.29
11316.64
5585691.32

3
1
2
10,347

16326.24
38166.29
5658.32
539.84

30.24
70.70
10.48

<0.0001
<0.0001
<0.0001

Total

5634670.03

10,350

544.41

Use collect style commands to make further style changes. Use the collect label levels command to make any necessary label changes. Once we are happy with our ANOVA table’s style and labels,
we can export it to another format with collect export.

352

Example 8 — Tables for ANOVA 353

Technical note
If you collect results from multiple calls to anova and use the above predefined style, the default
layout will produce a separate table for each collected call to anova. The cmdset dimension indexes
the collected estimation results, and the above predefined style specifies it in the layout to produce the
separate tables.
Suppose we collected estimation results from a second ANOVA model.
. quietly: collect: anova bpsystol sex##race

To see how the estimation command results and cmdset levels are assigned, type
. collect layout (cmdset) (result[cmdline])

To restore the layout to show the above ANOVA tables, type
. collect style use anova, layout

If we want to publish the second model fit in our report, we can select it using collect style
autolevels with the cmdset dimension without having to change collect layout by typing
. collect style autolevels cmdset 2, clear
. collect preview

Reference
McDowell, A., A. Engel, J. T. Massey, and K. Maurer. 1981. “Plan and operation of the Second National Health and
Nutrition Examination Survey, 1976–1980”. In Vital and Health Statistics, ser. 1, no. 15. Hyattsville, MD: National
Center for Health Statistics.

Also see
[TABLES] collect style use — Use collection styles from disk
[TABLES] Predefined styles — Predefined collection styles

Glossary
automatic levels. Automatic levels are levels of the result dimension (types of statistics) that are
selected to be automatically included in the table if specific levels are not requested at the time the
table is laid out. Automatic levels can be selected at the time results are collected by using collect
get or the collect prefix. Alternatively, automatic results can be selected at any time by using
collect style autolevels.
automatic results. See automatic levels.
collection. A collection contains results from one or more Stata commands. The results in a collection
can be used to create a table. Within the collection, the values returned by the Stata commands are
organized by tags, dimensions, and levels, which are used to determine how the values are arranged
in a table.
current collection. Stata can have many collections in memory at a time. The current collection is the
active collection—the collection to which collect subcommands are applied. By default, any new
results collected with the collect prefix are placed in the current collection. Any style changes and
label changes are applied to this collection. A new table built using collect layout, exported using
collect export, or saved using collect save is based on this collection.
dimensions. See tags, dimensions, and levels.
item. An item is a value in a collection. See value.
layout. The layout is the arrangement of a table. The layout is determined by rows, columns, and separate
tables. When creating a table from a collection, you specify the layout by identifying dimensions to
be placed on the rows, columns, and potentially separate tables.
levels. See tags, dimensions, and levels.
tags. See tags, dimensions, and levels.
tags, dimensions, and levels. Tags are assigned to all values in a collection when you either collect:
or collect get results. Custom tags can be added when collecting results. You can retrieve any
value from a collection by specifying its tags on a collect layout command. More typically, you
specify lists of tags to create a table.
Here are some examples of tags:
result[r2]
foreign[1]
colname[mpg]

specifies the 𝑅2 result
specifies foreign = 1
specifies the covariate mpg

Tags comprise two parts, a dimension and level. Here are the parts of result[r2]:
result[r2]
result
r2

tag
dimension—the dimension of tag result[r2]
level—a level of dimension result

Dimensions can contain multiple tags; each tag will have its own level. Consider the following:
result[N]
N

another tag in dimension result
another level of dimension result

Dimensions must have valid names; see [U] 11.3 Naming conventions.
354

Glossary 355

Levels can be integers or strings, and the strings may contain spaces. If a level contains spaces, it
must be quoted, for example, “my level”.
Some collect command arguments and options require a single tag:
result[r2]

Most collect command arguments and options accept tag lists, for example,
result[r2] result[N]

or, equivalently,
result[r2 N]

You can also just type a dimension name,
result

Wherever tag lists are allowed, a dimension name alone specifies a list of all the tags in the dimension.
If result has levels r2, N, ll, rmse, then result is interpreted as
result[r2] result[N] result[ll] result[rmse]

value. In a collection, a value is a number that can be used to fill a cell in a table. The values are obtained
from the stored results of Stata commands that are included in the collection. Values are organized by
tags, dimensions, and levels.

