Tables Builder — Tables Builder
Description

Menu

Remarks and examples

Description
After you have collected results using collect get, collect:, etable, dtable, or table, use the
Tables Builder to create tables of the results. In the Tables Builder, you can
• choose which results go in a table,
• lay out the rows and columns,
• change how row and column headers are arranged,
• change the look of anything, and
• export a table to Microsoft Word, Microsoft Excel, PDF, HTML, LATEX, SMCL, Markdown, and
plain text.

Menu
Statistics > Summaries, tables, and tests > Tables and collections > Build and style table

Remarks and examples
Remarks are presented under the following headings:
Overview
Laying out a table
Laying out a multiway table
Modifying the layout
Laying out stacked dimensions
Placing multiple results in a cell
Multiple tables
Changing row and column headers
Text/labels
Layout
Appearance
Show/hide factor-variable base levels and empty cells
Show/hide omitted coefficients
Changing cell/results appearance
Numeric formats
Borders and horizontal or vertical rules
Bold, italics, text color, and such
Cell color
Margins
Justification/alignment
Adding significance stars
Adding a custom table title
Changing table title appearance
Adding table notes
Changing table note appearance
Exporting a table

63

Tables Builder — Tables Builder 64
Advanced tools
Position of intercept
Automatic dimension levels
Rename dimension levels
Remap tags

Overview
The Tables Builder works with an existing collection. You create a collection by collecting results
from commands using collect get, collect, etable, dtable, and table. The Tables Builder lets
you choose which results go in a table, lay out the rows and columns of a table, change how row and
column headers are arranged, change the look of anything in the table, and export a table to Microsoft
Word, Microsoft Excel, PDF, HTML, LATEX, SMCL, Markdown, and plain text.
You launch the Tables Builder by selecting the menu item Statistics > Summaries, tables, and tests
> Tables and collections > Build and style table
You can see the major components of the Tables Builder in this diagram.

To use the Builder, you will need a basic understanding of what a collection is. In particular, if
seeing the words Dimensions and Levels above leaves you confused, read Tags, dimensions, and levels
in [TABLES] Intro 2.

Tables Builder — Tables Builder 65

If you are creating a table only to understand your data, you probably just need to lay out your table.
If you are creating a table for publication or to otherwise share with others, that is likely to be an iterative
process. It may take several steps to get the layout you want, then some steps to get the headers exactly
as you want them, and yet more steps to adjust numeric formats and text styles.

Laying out a table
The first step in creating a table is deciding what goes on the table’s rows and columns. We cannot
help you with that. The second step is getting those things onto the rows and columns, and the Builder
can help with that. The dimensions listed in the Dimensions list represent categories of values pulled
from results you collected. Each line in the list is a dimension description followed by the dimension
name in parentheses.
Choose which category you want to place on the rows of your table by clicking on one of the dimensions in the list. If you want all the values associated (tagged) with that dimension, then just click on the
to the left of the Rows box. If you do that, all the levels of that category become potential rows in the
table. And you will see a term added to the Rows box. That term will be identified with the name of the
dimension.
If you want only a subset of the dimension’s levels, then select them from the Levels list before hitting
the
control. As with the dimensions, each line in the list is a level description followed by the level
name in parentheses. You can click one level, then shift-click another to select a range. You can controlclick levels to select levels that are not neighbors in the list. If you select levels, their names will become
part of the description in the added term.
Do not worry too much about selecting the levels; you can modify the selected levels later.
We say “potential rows” because you must identify specific stored values using your selected dimensions, or the Builder cannot create a table. For a detailed discussion of what is required to properly
specify a layout, see How collect layout processes tag specifications in [TABLES] Collection principles.
If your table can be represented by a single dimension, you will see results in the Preview pane, and
you are done with the basic layout. This might be the case if you are using the Builder to pretty up the
results from a one-way tabulation command such as table rep78.
More likely, you are creating a two-way, or even multiway, table. To create a two-way table, you will
need to put a dimension into the Columns box. Again, click on the dimension, optionally select some
levels, and then click on the
beside the Columns box. A term for that dimension will appear in the
Columns box.
If two dimensions are enough to lay out your table, you will see a table with the results you want in
the Preview pane. If two dimensions are not enough for your table, you will see one of two things in the
Preview pane.
1. You might see a message with some suggestions for other dimensions that may help lay out your
table. If so, try adding one of those dimensions to one of the terms in your Rows or Columns
box. (See Laying out a multiway table.)
2. You might see a table with results you are not interested in, and either the rows or columns
have labels that may confuse you but certainly do not interest you. What has happened? This is
really the same problem. You need a multiway table to present your results, and you have only
laid out a two-way table. Let’s tell you how to proceed and then tell you why it happened.

Tables Builder — Tables Builder 66

First, think about the table you are trying to create. One, or more, of the dimensions you have not yet
put into the Rows or Columns box is required to identify the super-rows or super-columns of a multiway
table.
If you cannot think of any dimensions that you should add, clear your current layout by clicking on
the
button in the lower left of the Builder. Repeat the process of selecting and adding dimensions
to your layout, but this time carefully select only the levels you are interested in. Now you will see a
message in the Preview pane, and you can go back and proceed from item 1 above.
So what happened to create that useless table? The commands that collect results collect everything
by default, including things you may not want on your table. You may have noticed this when selecting
dimensions for your table. You may have seen levels like c1 and c2 that do not interest you. Regardless,
they are in the collection, as are the values they tag. When the Builder laid out your table by searching
over all the levels in the dimensions you selected for rows and columns, it found results that exactly
matched some of the row/column tag combinations. That happened because you asked for a two-way
table when you wanted to ask for a three-way or higher multiway table. Once you add the dimensions
for a multiway table, the results found for the mistaken two-way table will no longer be found—they
only match the unwanted two-way table. For more details than you probably want about what is required
to properly specify a layout, see How collect layout processes tag specifications in [TABLES] Collection
principles.

Laying out a multiway table
A multiway table has super-rows, super-columns, or both to present results that require more than two
dimensions. Consider a cross-tabulation of frequencies by the categorical variables sex, region, and
agegrp. Those counts form a cube with dimensions for each of the categorical variables. We cannot
put three-way results directly on a two-way table. What we can do is create a three-way table using
super-columns or super-rows for one of the dimensions. Here is what that looks like with super-rows for
sex:

Tables Builder — Tables Builder 67
. use https://www.stata-press.com/data/r19/nhanes2l
(Second National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey)
. table (sex agegrp) (region)

Sex
Male
Age group
20--29
30--39
40--49
50--59
60--69
70+
Total
Female
Age group
20--29
30--39
40--49
50--59
60--69
70+
Total
Total
Age group
20--29
30--39
40--49
50--59
60--69
70+
Total

NE

MW

Region
S

W

Total

204
169
122
146
290
87
1,018

340
199
182
141
333
115
1,310

290
200
175
170
381
116
1,332

282
202
131
145
365
130
1,255

1,116
770
610
602
1,369
448
4,915

240
165
124
146
297
106
1,078

344
234
194
166
388
138
1,464

299
243
190
215
430
144
1,521

321
210
154
162
376
150
1,373

1,204
852
662
689
1,491
538
5,436

444
334
246
292
587
193
2,096

684
433
376
307
721
253
2,774

589
443
365
385
811
260
2,853

603
412
285
307
741
280
2,628

2,320
1,622
1,272
1,291
2,860
986
10,351

There are several ways to lay out a three-way table in the Builder.
Method 1. The easiest way is to start by laying out a two-way table using just two of your three
required dimensions. You do that exactly as we did in Laying out a table. At that point, you
probably have a message in the Preview pane that you need to add more dimensions. Or you
might have a useless table that is not what you want. Either is to be expected. Ignore that and
move on.
Time to add your third dimension. Click on the
in one of the two terms you just created.
If you want a table with super-rows, click on the
on the term in the Rows box. If you
want a table with super-columns, click on the
on the term in the Columns box. From the
resulting drop-down list, select Edit. You will be presented with a Modify term dialog that
looks something like

Tables Builder — Tables Builder 68

This dialog box looks and acts a lot like the Dimensions and Levels list from the main Builder
window. Note that there will be a check mark in the box beside the dimension you previously
selected for the term. That means the checked dimension is part of this term. If you had selected
specific levels when creating the term, those will have check marks beside their lines in the
Levels list of the dialog.
Now add your third dimension—the one you have not yet used—to this term. To do that, just
click on the box beside the third dimension in the dialog. If you only want some of the levels
on your table, you can click on the boxes beside the levels you want on the table. Now click
on OK. You will see your term updated in the Rows or Columns box. More importantly, if
the three dimensions you have selected do indeed identify the table, you will see a table in the
Preview pane.
The term you modified will now look something like
where colname and result are the names of the dimensions you selected for the term. Your
dimension names will probably not be colname and result unless you happen to be creating a
comparative regression table. They will be the names of the dimensions that define your table.
The term might also look like
if you specifically selected the levels frequency and percent from the levels of dimension
result.
The # is actually part of the language for specifying table layouts when you use the command
collect layout instead of the Tables Builder. # instructs layout or the Builder to interact the
levels of the dimensions. If you think about how dimensions in the Rows and Columns boxes
are used, they too are interacted. In the case of the rows and columns of a two-way table, we
want all possible pairings of the levels from the row and column dimensions. Those pairings
form the cells in the table. When we created the interaction in our term, we were requesting
all possible triplets of the levels of the three dimensions. The third dimension is organized as
super-rows or super-columns.

Tables Builder — Tables Builder 69

Method 2. We can create a term with an interaction directly from the Dimensions list. We
start as we always do. Pick a dimension, and possibly select levels; then, use one of the
controls to put it into the Rows or Columns box. Then, click on that newly added term. It will
be highlighted. Then, select the third dimension from the Dimension list, and click on the
control for the Rows or Columns box where the term is highlighted. The new dimension will
be added to the highlighted term, and it will become an interaction term. Finally, add one or
more other dimensions to the empty Rows or Columns box.
Other methods. We did not have to perform all the steps in method 1 or method 2 in exactly
the order as written. And we can mix and match the methods from method 1 and method 2.
Put one term into the Rows box and then another into the Columns box; then use method 2 to
create interaction terms. We can delete terms and start over.
Moreover, we can create four-way tables, five-way tables, all the way up to silly-way tables. We
can use method 1 and method 2 to create as complex a multiway table as we like. The important
thing is to get our the interaction terms that specify our rows, super-rows, super-super-rows, . . . ;
and our columns, super-columns, . . . built so that we get the table we want.

Modifying the layout
There are four main things we might want to change in a layout:
1. Make the rows columns and the columns rows.
2. Make super-rows rows and rows super-rows.
3. Make super-columns columns and columns super-columns.
4. Add or remove levels from a dimension.
1. Make the rows columns and the columns rows. Swapping rows and columns is both a
common desire and easy. You might accidentally put a
dimension on the columns and realize
that 87 cities makes for a truly wide table. Drag the cities dimension to the Rows box, where you
always wanted it, and drag whatever dimension is in the Rows box to the Columns box. Done.
This works with terms that have interactions too. If you drag an interaction term from the Rows
box into the Columns box, you are simply converting the whole super-row/row structure into a supercolumn/column structure. And vice versa when dragging from the Columns box to the Rows box.
2. Make super-rows rows and rows super-rows. This is a little more subtle, and you may have
already encountered it if you tried your own example when we discussed multiway tables above. We
showed a table in Laying out a multiway table. It had levels of the dimension sex as super-rows and
levels of the dimension agegrp as rows. That makes the comparison of age groups within sex easy. What
if you really wanted to compare females and males within age groups?
We need to swap the dimensions that are on the rows and super-rows. First, click on the
on the
term in the Rows box, and select Edit to launch the Modify term dialog. You would see
that the sex and agegrp dimensions are checked and that sex appears above agegrp. Simply clickand-hold on the agegrp dimension, and drag it above the sex dimension. Or click-and-hold on the sex
dimension, and drag it below agegrp. Click on OK. The dimensions on the rows and super-rows have
been swapped. The rows for females and males are now adjacent.
That is the general idea, and it also works for multiway terms where more than two dimensions are
interacted.

Tables Builder — Tables Builder 70

3. Make super-columns columns and columns super-columns. This is really just step 2.
Reread step 2, and substitute “column” everywhere you see “row”.
4. Add or remove levels from a dimension. You have rows you do not want, or columns that
you want are missing. You may have done this to yourself when creating terms by selecting too few or
too many levels for a dimension. Or you may have a collection from table that makes pretty draconian
assumptions about which result dimensions you want from any command() options.
If you have been reading along, you may have guessed the answer to this one. Click on the
of the
term for which you want to add or remove levels, and select Edit to launch the Modify term dialog. In
the dialog, click on the dimension for which you want to change the list of levels. Then check or uncheck
levels until all the levels you want are checked, and only the levels you want are checked.

Laying out stacked dimensions
There are cases where you do not want to interact a dimension with another dimension on the rows or
columns as we did in Laying out a multiway table. Instead, you want to stack some results below some
other results. (Or perhaps stack them to the right if the original results are on the columns.)
Consider a table comparing two regressions. Each regression appears in a column, so you already have
the term
in the Columns box. The coefficients and perhaps their standard errors and confidence intervals appear on the rows. The values for these statistics require that you also know the covariates. That means the Rows box will have an interaction term that looks like
.
Suppose you also want to place some of the model-level statistics below the coefficients and their
statistics. Say you want the 𝑅-square, the model 𝐹 statistic, and the 𝑝-value of the model 𝐹 statistic.
To add these statistics to the bottom of each regression, click on Result (result) in the Dimensions list,
and then control-click on R-square (r2), Model F test (F), and Model test p-value (p) in the Levels
list. Then, after making sure that nothing is selected in the Rows box, click on the
beside the Rows
box. You will see a new term added to the Rows box, and the model-level statistics will be added to the
bottom of the table.

Placing multiple results in a cell
Rather than stacking results or placing them on adjacent columns, you may prefer to place multiple
results in a single cell. For example, suppose you have a table comparing regression results. You currently
have
in the Columns box and
in the Rows box, but you would rather
place the confidence intervals in the same cell as the coefficients. You can create this layout by creating
a composite result from the coefficients and confidence intervals. Click on Manage composite results,
and provide a name for this new composite result; for example, you might name this result coefci.
Then, for the Composite result elements, you would select Coefficient ( r b) and 95% CI ( r ci).
You can then lay out your table by interacting colname with the level coefci of dimension result.

Multiple tables
We have thus far completely ignored the Tables box. It has just one job. Instead of creating super-rows
or super-columns, any dimension placed in the Tables box creates multiple tables—one for each level of
the dimension. If you place or create an interaction term in the Tables box, a new table will be produced
for all combinations of the levels in the term.

Tables Builder — Tables Builder 71

What is more, you already know how to use it. Placing dimensions into the Tables box or creating
interaction terms in the Tables box works exactly as it works in the Rows and Columns boxes. You can
also drag terms into the Tables box from the Rows or Columns boxes, and vice versa.

Changing row and column headers
Row headers are the descriptions of the rows that you see along the left of a table. Column headers are
the descriptions of the columns that you see along the top of a table. These headers are the reader’s guide
to understanding your table. If the headers are good, your table will be easy to read and understand. If
the headers are bad, readers will be left scratching their heads.
Perhaps you are lucky, and your variable labels along with the default result labels and the default
header composition will be just what you want. Perhaps not. If not, there is plenty of control for the
headers in the Builder. You just have to know where to look.
Let’s start with the easiest part, the text actually written in the headers.
Text/labels
You can change the label for any dimension on your table. This is the label for the dimension itself,
not for the levels of the dimension. It is the levels that actually form the rows and columns of your table.
Sometimes, the dimension label is shown in the header; sometimes, it is not. See Layout for a discussion.
To change one or more of your dimension labels, click on the button Edit dimension labels to launch
the dimension labels dialog. There you can select dimensions, see their current label, and change that
label.
You can also change the labels for levels in a dimension. These labels almost always appear on the
table because they identify the rows and columns. An exception is comparative regression tables that
sometimes identify standard errors by placing them in parentheses and confidence intervals by placing
them in brackets. Such tables often dispense with labeling the statistics, the levels, altogether. Regardless,
if you want to change labels for levels, click on the Edit level labels button to launch a dialog for editing
labels. In that dialog, you can choose the dimension with the levels you want to change, choose the level
you want to change, see the current label for the level, and change that label.
Layout
There are two components to header layout—what things are shown and hidden, and how the labels
and names are composed to form the header.
Let’s start with what is shown and hidden. In Text/labels, we alluded to cases where dimension labels
themselves might or might not be shown. Consider a dimension created from a birth sex variable. The
two levels in that dimension would likely be labeled Female and Male. Those labels are self-explanatory
and do not need any additional labeling to be clear. We do not need, and probably do not want, the label
for the dimension itself. We would be perfectly happy with row headers that look like this:
Female ...
Male ...

Now consider a variable from a Likert scale. Say we are talking about websites, and the label on
the dimension is “Easy to navigate”. The levels are labeled “Strongly agree”, “Agree”, “Neutral”, “Disagree”, and “Strongly disagree”. Those level labels do not mean anything by themselves. We need the
dimension label—“Easy to navigate”. We now need row headers that look like this:

Tables Builder — Tables Builder 72
Easy to navigate
Strongly agree ...
Agree ...
Neutral ...
Disagree ...
Strongly disagree ...

Click on the Show/hide header content to launch a dialog that lets you control which labels or names
are shown. You can choose to show labels, show names, or show nothing (hide). You can make this
decision for dimensions, for all levels in a dimension, or for individual levels in a dimension. You can
even set the default behavior across all dimensions and levels.
Once your header content is set, you can change how row and column headers are composed or
constructed. You do that by clicking on the Compose row headers or Compose column headers button.
That word “composed” encompasses a lot of choices. Let’s consider a few.
Do you want cross-tabulation row headers that look like
Female
Female
Female
Female
Male
...

East
West
North
South
East

or like
Female
East
West
North
South
Male
East
...

Then choose either Split elements across columns or Stack elements in a single column on the
Compose row headers dialog.
Do you want your factor-variable interactions to look like
Sex # Region
Female # East
Female # West
Female # North
Female # South
Male # East
...

